>> Kyle Simpson: So coercion is
JavaScript's, or rather I should say,
a dynamic language's way of expressing how
values convert from one type to another.
And we all know that languages like C++,
Java,
basically all languages,
have some mechanism for type conversion.
And it would be ludicrous to suggest in
for example Java, that they should do away
with all the type conversions, there's
no reason to convert between types.
Obviously we have to statically cast from
one type to another to do any kind of
reasonable work in our programs.
You have a number that you
receive from an API call, and
you need to print it on the screen,
well guess what,
it has to be converted to a string so
it can be printed to the screen.
You receive a string as
input in the input box, and
then you need to do some math with that.
Guess what,
it has to be converted to a number.
I would go almost so far as to say there
is no non trivial program in existence,
that doesn't have some notion of
some type conversion happening.
So when people suggest that
JavaScript's coercion is bad,
and evil, and a buggy design and
should be ignored and removed.
That's almost a ludicrous statement,
because JavaScript couldn't do anything
useful if we couldn't do conversion.
So rather than suggest coercion is bad,
I think we should look at
what patterns of coercion are useful,
what ones we should avoid, okay?
And I'm gonna arbitrarily divide this into
two categories that I'll call explicit and
implicit.
Immediately upon saying that, most of
you probably have some notion of well
explicit coercion is okay,
it's implicit coercion that's bad.
So typically developers will have
a perception that explicit mechanisms
in code are preferable, where implicit
mechanisms are easier to misunderstand,
and not fully grasp or be able to
tell that they're happening in code.
So typically we'll label the explicit
as good, and implicit as bad.
I wanna set aside some of those notions,
because I do not mean to put these in two
categories and
say explicit good implicit bad.
As a matter of fact,
I think the most benefit,
the biggest proposition benefit
here is implicit coercion.
But we need to first look at
these as distinctly different
approaches to the problem, and then
ferret out what parts of the explicit and
implicit coercions are useful, and
what parts will not be useful to us.
And by the way, this is not a scientific
thing, like you must do it this way.
There are things that we'll
talk about in this course,
which is like, there's no argument.
Like lexical scope works this way,
there's no subjectivity,
there's a lot of subjectivity here.
But there's a cargo cult against coercion.
[COUGH] And you've heard plenty of those
cases for why people don't wanna do that,
and why you should never use the double
equals and all of that stuff.
And what I wanna take you through is
the distillation of the case in favor
of these mechanisms.
So set aside if you would while we go for
this next little bit, set aside some of
you preconceptions about what's bad about
these things and why we should avoid them.
And I only use type script,
I only use static types of whatever,
just set some of that aside, because I
really do genuinely believe that some of
these mechanisms can aid
us in writing better code.
All right, so let's look at explicit.
My basic what you need to
know sort of definition for
explicit is that it's obvious from
the code that you're doing it.
Okay, if you look at a piece of code,
and it's obvious that a conversion from
one type to another is happening, that's
explicit coercion, no question, okay?
Now obviously JavaScript being a runtime
oriented language, that conversion
is not enforced and its not happening at
compile time, it's happening at runtime.
But it's still an explicit mechanism,
you can see in the code
you're going from a string to a number,
it's very clear, okay?
But even within that statement,
there is some subjectivity,
which we'll see here on
the very next slide, okay?
So we're going to talk first about the
case of going between strings and numbers.
It's one of the most common cases where
conversion between types will happen.
So let's talk about going in either
direction between string and number.
Let's imagine we start out with a string
quote 123, and what we'd like to do
is convert that to the number 123
we'd want to coerce it, okay?
Multiple ways to do that coercion.
One way that is often cited,
but which I will say
is not actually coercion is the parseInt
function like we see on line 2.
Now with the parseInt function,
it's an unusual occurrence that
its name is actually very
descriptive of what it's about.
Not everybody does good API design, and
in fact there's plenty of places in
JavaScript that I could complain
about the API design, say yeah,
not a well designed function name,
for example.
This one says right on the label what kind
of soup you're getting in the can, okay?
It says right on the label
what I do is parse integers.
So think to yourself what is parsing, and
what is the relationship
between parsing and coercing?
If I coerce a number out a string
what's the difference between that and
parsing a number out of a string?
Well I would argue that these
are distinctly different concepts, and
using the parseInt function to coerce
is a misuse of that mechanism,
and it should not be surprising that
may do things differently than what
you might have otherwise expected.
So parsing is taking a string going from
left to right, looking for characters that
match what you're expecting, in this case
integer numbers like the decimal 0 through
9, matching those, and
then producing the number equivalent.
And stopping as soon as you no longer see
characters that represent that number.
As soon as you find the first
unrecognized character, stop.
That's what parsing is about.
So in CSS you have
a property that is 123px and
you pull that property out so
you have the string, quote 123px.
If you parse that string for
an integer, you're gonna
get the integer 123 out because it's
gonna start from left to right.
It's gonna see the 1, 2, and 3,
recognize those, parse those out.
As soon as it sees the p we're in base
10 p is not a valid character, so
it's gonna skip over, I mean it's gonna
stop at that point, okay that's parsing.
Coercion on the other hand is an all or
nothing situation, the value you give
me either has to completely coerce to
this other type, or it fails entirely.
There's no partial coercion,
so it's not like parsing.
If you give me 123px as a string, and
you asked me to coerce that to a number,
there's only one sensible answer for
that, and that's the NaN value.
Because 123px is not a valid number,
make sense?
So parsing is not coercion.
I would advise you not to
try to use parsing for
coercion, or
to try to use coercion for parsing.
Decide what you need, and
more importantly, use the right tool for
the right task, because you wanna
communicate clearly in your code.
There is not only use the right tool for
the right task, but
use the right tool in the right way.
I use the silly metaphor, you know how
people say well don't go around swinging
a hammer if you're trying
to drive in screws, right?
That's a very common metaphor.
But let's say I've got a bunch of nails,
and I wanna drive those nails in
I have the correct tool, I have the hammer
in hand cuz I have the right tool.
But if I put that hammer in my mouth and
I start swinging,
using the right tool, right?
But I'm not using the right
tool the correct way.
So, both of those are important in
the equation, use the correct tool and
use it correctly, as designed.
So, parseInt, it's designed for
parsing and we should parse with that.
[COUGH] Then we turn our
attention to line 5.
You'll notice I'm using the number,
that native function,
remember those we talked about earlier.
The native function When we don't
use the new keyword in front of it,
when it's just the function call,
it takes whatever we give it and
it coerces it to that
corresponding primitive type.
In this case, that primitive number.
You will notice that line 5 actually kinda
looks a little bit like a static type
cast in some languages.
Technically, here it's actually
a function call, it's not a type cast.
But it sort of looks the same.
And I don't think that's an accident,
I actually think that's a good thing for
us to draw upon the precedent if
people are used to seeing explicit
type casting in a static
type oriented language.
We can do something very familiar and
recognizable to them by doing
a coercion from a string, in this case,
to a number, using the number function.
So I would recommend and
endorse that, as a way to do explicit
coercions from any value to a number, but
in this case, from a string to a number.
Anything you pass into
the number function,
it'll coerce it to its number equivalent.
Including NaN if that's
the appropriate coercion, okay?
Now, [COUGH] having said that, very few
places have I ever seen in any code base,
especially in open source,
anybody using the number function.
It seems virtually every time that people
want to explicitly coerce to a number,
what they instead use is this unary
+ operator, as you see on line 8.
Now what's that operator about?
If you read the spec, that operator,
specifically takes whatever you give it,
take the operand and runs the two
number abstract operation against it.
It does the exact same thing as
the number function, exactly the same.
One's an operator, one's a function call.
So both of these could
rightly be under this heading
of explicit coercions cuz they both
explicitly do one and only one thing.
There is no other purpose to that unary
plus operator than to coerce to a number.
And many people in the opensource
community, if they're doing
anything in their code base where
they need to coerce to a number,
they'll use the plus operator.
That can get a bit confusing
when it's like x plus plus y,
where the second plus is separated with
a space, so now it's not the plus plus
operator but it's the you can get
really confusing with it, okay?
But until I just taught you that,
there is at least some of you
who have probably never seen that or
didn't know what it was doing.
So is that an explicit coercion for you?
Well, until you have learned it,
it may not be as self intuitive as, for
example, the number function.
I think most people seeing line 5
not even knowing what is going on,
would at least have some intuition, you're
trying to make a number out of something.
But looking at line 8, maybe not so
much intuition around it.
Now that I've taught you, everybody is
now a certified JavaScript engineer,
you know what that thing does.
But is it genuinely truly explicit?
And the point I'm trying to make here is
that there is subjectivity even within
the realm of explicitness.
For the members of your team, you have to
decide what is explicit and what is not.
Just like you have discussions or should
have discussions about your style guide,
you should have discussions about when we
want to coerce from value to a number,
how do wanna do it?
We wanna have a consistency.
Why is the style guide even important?
I mean, is it just so that we don't have
to argue about spaces versus tabs or
trailing commas, or
any of that other stuff?
Why are style guides important?
It's the same reason why this
decision would be important.
As a matter of fact, I'd argue this is
a really important part of a style guide.
Style guides are not just
about literal code style,
they're about idiomatic style as well.
Given a certain type of problem,
how do we always choose to
default to solving that problem?
In this case, given the problem of wanting
to convert from one type to another,
how do we do that?
Why is consistency so important?
Because when you are consistent,
it makes bugs more obvious.
When you're inconsistent, bugs have
a much easier way of slipping through.
So I would recommend,
strongly, that you and
your team members have a discussion about,
hey, here's this thing that we know we're
gonna have to do, let's stop pretending
that coercion doesn't need to happen.
Let's stop pretending that
coercion is all bad all the time,
and let's talk specifically about how we
didn't wanna do it when we need to do it.
Let's be intentional about it.
Choose the number function,
choose the plus operator.
You might even choose to mix the two,
although I would argue if you
have some inconsistency there or if it's
not a clear rule as to when to use one or
the other,
you've shot yourself in the foot, okay?
But both of them would fall under this
heading of the whole purpose of that
statement is to do the conversion,
to do the coercion, so they're explicit.
There's no side effects happening.
Let's go the other direction
from number to string.
On line 11 we start with the number 456,
line 12 we call the toString method.
You've seen toString before,
we talked about it a little while ago.
I think toString is pretty explicit.
It says what it's gonna do and
it does it faithfully, it creates a string
representation of the thing
that was called against, okay?
Now, many people like to use that method
because that method feels kind of
Java ask to them.
I have some thing and I want to create
the string or representation to it.
But that comes from the mindset,
the incorrect mindset that everything
is an object in JavaScript.
Cuz look at what you're doing,
you're calling a method against what
is otherwise a primitive value.
I would refer to this as sort
of implicitly explicit, or
maybe explicitly implicit depending
on how you wanna think about it.
Because we are in fact
explicitly calling a method that
seems to be named very properly to
tell us what we want it to do, but
under the covers, there's something
very much implicit happening.
You cannot call a method
against a primitive value.
That doesn't even make any sense
if you really think about it.
Primitive values don't have methods,
objects have methods.
So wait a minute, how did I start
out with the number 456 and
somehow was able to call
a method against it?
There's a specific name for
this, it's called boxing.
JavaScript will automatically coerce,
that's my terminology,
automatically coerce a primitive
to its object wrapper counterpart,
in this case the number object
representation of that number primitive,
so that you can call a method against it.
It automatically does that for you.
So when I call toString against
a primitive number, number object results,
then I can call toString
against the number object.
Now, you can argue ether way whether or
not that is a useful feature.
I will take the stance, and
I will defend this a little bit later,
that I think that's a useful
feature in JavaScript.
The fact that I can call length against
the string primitive, for example.
Instead of having to cast it to a string
object and then call dot account or
something weird like that.
And just call .length
on a string primitive.
That's, in my opinion, useful mechanism.
But that's an implicit mechanism.
That's not explicit.
There's an implicit coercion from
the primitive to the native, happening.
From the primitive literal value,
to its wrapped object counterpart.
So this is implicitly explicit.
By contrast, line 15,
pretty straightforward.
The string function does exactly
what it says on the label.
You give it anything it will
call the toStrings abstract
operation under the covers and
produce the string of it.
Give it an array, it's going to
call the two primitive on that and
then the two string on
the resulting value, okay?
So again I would tend to
prefer lines 5 and lines 15,
because I think they say very clearly and
explicitly what the intent is.
Seems to be that a lot of people in the
open source community and in the broader
JavaScript development community
kind of prefer lines 8 and lines 12.
They're not my favorite, but
I would endorse any one of these as
valid ways to get this result, okay?
Questions so far about explicitly
going between string and number?
Does that make sense?
>> Kyle Simpson: What
about going from any value type
to the Boolean value type?
This is a very common thing.
Whenever we want to ask something, like
for example, do a Boolean test like an if
statement or something, and we're testing
something that's not already a Boolean,
we need a Boolean so we need to explicitly
create a Boolean for that purpose.
Another example, say you're
producing an API data structure.
You're gonna send it off
to some API call and
that API expect to have true or
false in some property.
But the thing you have is like a string or
whatever If you just pass along the string
you're probably gonna get
an error from the API,
especially if you're calling an API on
a language that's more static typed.
They say no, no, we need a Boolean.
You have to send a Boolean.
So what are you gonna do?
You're gonna need to
explicitly create a Boolean.
Follow me?
>> Kyle Simpson: So
start out with a string 123.
You wanna produce the Boolean equivalent
of that value, you call the Boolean
function, capital Boolean.
>> Kyle Simpson: Same as with string and
number, it's very explicit, it says
exactly on the cover what it's gonna do.
I've never once, in a real code base,
seen somebody do that.
But they ought to,
cuz it's very clear and explicit.
And if our goal is to
communicate clearly and
explicitly, why don't we spend
a few extra characters doing that?
Maybe it's because a lot
of us have optimized for
something different than readability.
Maybe we've optimized for
how quickly we can just bang out code.
Instead of optimizing for
the reading, which is where we
spend most of our time anyway.
So I think you ought to spend
those extra characters.
But you know how most people do it,
line 15, that double negate.
As a matter of fact, that's become so
idiomatic that people actually
believe that !!,
on line 5 is its own operator.
It's not, but
a lot of people think of it as a single
operator cuz it happens so often.
I don't think I've ever seen
anybody do the Boolean function
in actual production code,
but I've seen thousands and
thousands of occurrences
of that double negate.
What's happening with double negate?
Well, it's actually two separate
operations because there is really just
a single exclamation,
a single negate operator.
But here is what the negate operator does.
It specifically takes
whatever you pass it and
if it's not already a boolean,
guess what it does.
It coerces it to a Boolean
calling the two Boolean abstract
operation exactly as you would expect.
And then it does this other thing
which is frankly a little bit
annoying in our particular
situation because
it's converted to a Boolean
then it flips the parity.
So once it produces the Boolean then it
says if you produce two I'm wanna flip it
to false to produce false and it's true
because it is the negate operator, right?
So it needs to negate,
it needs to not just coerce.
So this is an operator that
both coerces and negates.
The coerced part we like.
The negate part we,
in this case, don't like.
So what do we do?
Flip it back with another negate.
That's what the second exclamation is.
We undo that undesired effect
of flipping the parody.
That's what's happening.
Now that is explicit in the same way
that the unary plus is explicit.
If you know what negate does,
you know that it coerces,
it does have this other behavior too, but
it's not like this is some side effect.
It's specifically designed to coerce.
So you could call this
an explicit coercion.
As I said virtually all occurences that
I've seen use the double the gain.
Before I taught you what it was doing,
I bet many of you would have failed
the interview question, explain to
me exactly how double negate works.
It's not a criticism against you, it's
just most people never think about it.
Well that makes a bullion,
I don't care how it works.
I do care how it works, and I'm hoping to
inspire in you that you should care how it
works cause it matters.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let me stop for
just a moment.
I have lots of little sayings
that I pepper throughout, and
I kind of will style these as,
kettify as laws or whatever.
It's just made up truisms of myself.
And they're not even entirely
original thoughts of my own.
But I would say this,
code that you do not understand is
code that you cannot trust.
>> Kyle Simpson: Code
that you don't understand is
code that you cannot trust.
How much of your code do
you actually understand?
How much of it do you just use because
that's just the way it's always been done?
I just saw it on a blog post and I just
started doing it and it just works, right?
I'm just raising the bar and saying.
If you wanna be good at your skill and
your craft, it's not magical.
I'm not somehow magically born
as a JavaScript developer and
got it from on high or know what I did?
I read the spec, and
I asked a lot of questions,
and I wrote about it, and
I taught about it, and I tried it, and
I stumbled my way to
understanding it better,
because I refuse to just write code and
not know what it was doing, or how.
That's the only difference.
And you can do that, too.
Question?
>> Speaker 2: Just asking
if you could go over that double negate?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: One more time.
>> Kyle Simpson: The first one,
the right most one on line 5,
the one that's right next to the foo.
That's the first one that's gonna run.
What it's going to do is two things.
First off if you pass it something that's
not already a Boolean it's going to call
the underlying two Boolean coercion which
is essentially that look up table that
we talked about.
And it's gonna produce a real boolean.
So here we gave it the string 123.
Is the string 123 in the falsy table or
the truthy table?
>> Kyle Simpson: Why is it on the truthy?
>> Speaker 2: Cuz it's not false.
>> Kyle Simpson: Cuz it's not one of
the falsy ones that is explicitly listed,
right?
So if it's not falsy, it must be truthy,
so it's going to produce true.
Now it says, great, thanks.
Now I have a Boolean, my job is to negate,
my job is to flip the parity.
So since you gave me a true,
I'm gonna flip it to false.
If you had given me a false,
I would have flipped it to true.
So we have negated,
that's the first exclamation.
The second exclamation is,
not gonna need to do any coercion,
cuz coercion already happened.
It's just gonna say, let's flip it back.
Now, theoretically,
I do not know this to be true, and
I don't know that it will ever be true,
but theoretically, the JavaScript engine
could statically analyze and
recognize that idiom, and optimize for it.
Theoretically, they could
not do the flipping.
They're like well you're
just gonna flip it back,
I'm just gonna skip the flipping part.
Maybe they do, maybe they don't.
I don't know, I'm not an engine developer.
But there is an advantage to using syntax,
cuz syntax is declared if an engine's
can more statically analyze syntax
>> Kyle Simpson: So, line 2, line 5,
both of them explicitly coerce,
in this case from a string to a boolean.
Now line 9 is a little interesting.
Again, I like to label this
as explicitly implicit.
There's a special recognition point
that comes with code like that.
Cuz if I see code where
we use a ternary and
the two results encloses are true and
false respectively, I can tell you from
ten miles away that either that code that
was transpiled from Java to JavaScript,
or that's a Java developer who's writing
JavaScript because that's a Java-ism.
That's what you do in Java to try
to come up with a true false.
That's how you explicitly coerce,
if you will, to the boolean.
You just do this ternary thing and
you end up with true or false.
There's no question that the end result
of that is either true or false, and
we'd all probably agree that's
an explicit mechanism then, right?
But I call it explicitly implicit,
because hidden underneath the cover
is actually not so hidden at all.
Right there at the very beginning of
that statement, we have to do a boolean
coercion on foo to do the test, to decide
whether true or false is the result.
You see what I'm saying?
So we have to first do an implicit
coercion to bullion to do the test.
And then we result in the explicit true or
false.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now that's just needless
going, end a rounding ourselves,
that's chasing our own tail if you will.
Don't do it that way.
Use line 2 or line 5,
there are much better options to
explicitly create a boolean, right?
This is non-idiomatic JavaScript.
That's how you show off that
you're a Java developer, okay?
And I don't mean to criticize Java,
cuz it works well in Java.
It just doesn't make any
sense in JavaScript, okay?